I Know What You Did Last Summer: 3 Years of Wireless Monitoring at DEF CON
Friday at 16:00 in Track 2
20 minutes | Demo, Tool
d4rkm4tter (Mike Spicer) Hacker
For the past 3 years d4rkm4tter has been obsessed with monitoring the wireless networks at DEF CON. This talk will take you on a journey through 
the successes and failures that lead to the creation of the WiFiCactus and the over 1 TB of data captured. A history of each capture project including 
a summary of the most interesting pieces of data will be shown.

Many people spread a lot of fear, uncertainty and doubt about the wireless environments during DEF CON. This presentation aims to bring some clarity to 
what is really happening in the airwaves during one of the largest hacker conferences in the world. This will include presenting data on the attacks and 
sensitive information that exists in the airwaves. This presentation will demonstrate the risks of using wireless networks and information leaks that can 
be captured by anyone who is passively listening. Countermeasures and protection strategies will be provided to help you avoid having your data captured 
by those who might be listening. 

With the number of connected devices around us, there has never been a better time to start wardriving or warwalking. Everyone is capable of profiling 
wireless data around them thanks to cheap hardware and open source tools. As hackers it is important for us to discover issues and vulnerabilities while 
validating claims of security by software and hardware vendors. Monitoring wireless communication is a great way to start validating those claims. All of 
the hardware and methods used will be provided so that anyone can do this type of monitoring on their own. Hack the Planet!
d4rkm4tter (Mike Spicer)
d4rkm4tter is a mad scientist hacker who likes to meddle with hardware and software. He is particularly obsessed with wireless. He has a degree in computer 
science from Southern Utah University which he has put to use building and breaking a wide array of systems. These include web application pentesting, wireless 
monitoring and tracking as well as good old fashioned reverse engineering. He is the creator of the #WiFiCactus and has been seen presenting Demolabs at 
DEF CON and DEF CON China Beta. He is a Kismet cultist and active in the wireless and wardriving communities.

Twitter: @d4rkm4tter
Website: palshack.org


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 


Running a crazy Pineapple!!

Early 2000s, wanted to find better service. 

2015, ran a backpack. 

2016, planted 12 monitoring boxes. 

2017+, wifi cactus. 25 Hak5 pineapple tetras

Why?

	- Why is DEFCON's wireless known as the "most dangerous in the world"	 to understand how to protect ourselves


Wireshark:
	Using another tool called NetworkMiner, Kismet, PCAPinator [github/mspicer/pcapinator] 

Used Wigle.net
	Created a map

Some attacks seen:
		were running a lot of DeAuth
		KRACKS
		MiTM/Karma
		SSID bigger than 32 bytes

Some vulns seen:
		API leaks
		DNS unencrypted, typically
		Slack uses sub-domains

	
Closing:
		DeAyhts will happen
		APIs are gonna leak
		Pineapples are a thing
		Run geo-fencing on mobile
		Use VPNs, but make sure there are no leaks
		