Wi-Fi Threat Modelling and Monitoring (WiNT)
Besim Altinok, Barikat Internet Security
Can Kurnaz, Senior Cybersecurity Consultant at KPMG Netherlands
With the widespread use of wireless Internet access, we see that the use of portable technologies is rapidly increasing. Increasing 
public networks and facilitating access to these networks have attracted the attention of attackers. Due to easy availability of mature 
honeypot creation tools, this attack is a slam dunk for even the most novice of Wi-Fi attackers. Enterprise security products have tried 
but failed to solve this problem with rule and lockdown based approaches. In this talk, we are going to tell a story experienced about 
Wi-Fi network attackers. We will practically demonstrate how using new detection and deception techniques we can make Wi-Fi clients and 
environmentally secure.

Besim Altinok (Twitter: @AltnokBesim) has been researching Wi-Fi security for over a decade. He created WiPi-Hunter project 
against Wi-Fi hackers. He is the author of a book on Wi-Fi security. Besim's work on wireless security has been published in 
ArkaKapi Magazine and others. He has also spoken at top conferences including BlackHat Europe, ASIA, Defcon, and others. Besim 
ALTINOK works currently at BARIKAT Internet Security in Turkey. Besim also founded Pentester Training project.
Can Kurnaz (Twitter: @0x43414e) is conducting penetration tests from internet and internal networks to web-based applications, 
network infrastructures, wireless devices, IoT devices and operational technology infrastructures such as ICS/SCADA systems and components.


Besim:			[Background] ... Student in Turkey, developing WiPiHunter, Author Wireless Attack, Monitor, Defense, Presented at BlackHat Europe '17 and Asia '18, etc.

Can:			[Background] ... Presented at Blackhat '19, Works as PenTester

			Agenda: 
				- Wifi Networks
				- Profile WiFi Hackers
				- Analzye Threat Model
				- Defense
			We're developing a tool WiPiHunter to identify Wifi Pineapples
			And then we started trying to build defense
			{picture} talking about probe request,etc. 
			Device tries to sent auth request, etc., etc. 
			AP sends beacon frame and device tries to send connection request based on SSID thats already known

			Pineapples create Open WiFi networks, malls, coffee shops, etc. with typical SSIDs that sound legit
			{talks about how WiFi Pineapples work} 
			uses hostapd-man to perform WiFi attacks like GTC Downgrade, Karma attacks, etc.
			
			Create Threat Modeling
			The sec of an object depends on the sec of the objects it is assocuated with it
			{picture of threat model} 
			Works with IDS/IPS on WiFi router
			Additionally works to identify the router manufacturer info for known vulns
			Also considers password as weak access point
			User devices are also a threat to the network, as the device stores the password for AP, as well as the location of the connection
			Karma attacks - 
			Rogue APs - 

Besim:			Outside of the Network as well:
			Fighting Against WiFi Hackers, we must know the solutions do not need to be complex 
			We use methods: Fake Probe Requests, etc. 
			
			Karma Attack - whats going on exactly?
			Use probe requests and responses 
				{{wlan.fc.type==1 and wlan.fc.subtype==12 in Wireshark}}
			Sends a lot of auth packets
			{{Does Karma work like brute-force'}}
			Can use scapy ?to send fake probe requests?
			
			AP always send Beacon Packers and Prove Response
			Both similar to each other bssid+ssid+target(broadcast)
			Demo-ed WiPiHunter			

			Fingerprint Techniques for WiFi Pineapple
			Default port # HTTP:1471, Hostname info: pineapple.al, DNSSpoof Check			


